---
date: 2020-12-08T10:00:00.000Z
tags:
  - CSS
  - CSS Grid
  - Flexbox
podcast: 'https://player.captivate.fm/episode/8786feca-3500-4c45-ade1-1b13fa1b8782'
excerpt: The Modern Way to Center Content in CSS
---

For many years the bane of any web designer's existence was something simple: centering an object on the page. Horizontally centering was one thing, but getting an item to vertically center was a whole different monster. Even worse was both vertically and horizontally centering an element. However, modern CSS stylings have made this a snap with just a few lines of code. Gone are the days of absolute positioning an element 50% of the top and left of its container and bumping it back negative 50% with a transform. Now we can use Flexbox or CSS Grid to quickly center the element and move on.

## Using Flexbox

Flexbox makes it very easy to align items in the center of the container with just three lines of CSS. Just set the display to `flex` and center the items horizontally (`justify-content: center`) and vertically (`align-items: center`).

``` css
.container {
    display: flex;
    justify-content: center;
    align-items: center;
}
```

Now all items originate from the center of the container!

It is important to note that if you change to `flex-direction: column` the properties have the opposite effect: `justify-content` becomes the vertical axis and `align-items` becomes the horizontal. Think of it as rotating the container element's axes.

## Using CSS Grid

Meanwhile, CSS Grid makes it even easier by only needing `place-items: center` to center elements in the grid. Just set the display to `grid`, place the items, and you're off to the races.

``` css
.container {
    display: grid;
    place-items: center;
}
```

If you want to control the individual axes you can use the same properties as we did with Flexbox instead, `justify-content` for the horizontal axis and `align-items` for the vertical.

``` css
.container {
    display: grid;
    justify-content: center;
    align-items: center;
}
```

Never get tripped up with centering an element on your website again. Whether you are using Flexbox or CSS Grid add a couple lines of code and move on to something more deserving of your skill and attention.

## Credit

_Today’s Tuesday Tips was adapted from [a series of posts on Daily Dev Tips](https://daily-dev-tips.com/posts/css-grid-most-easy-center-vertical-and-horizontal/)._
