---
date: 2020-08-27T09:00:00.000Z
tags:
  - Content Marketing
  - Google Analytics
  - Netlify
  - Productivity
---

## Fresh Content Marketing Strategies

As freelancers, we are always looking for new ways to establish our business as an expert in our respective fields. Content marketing has always been a staple strategy to drive our business forward, examples being blogs, ebooks, webinars, and podcasts. But it is important to be on the lookout for new strategies to help elevate our businesses to the top of the leaderboards. Check out yesterday's [post on The Next Web for content marketing strategies](https://thenextweb.com/growth-quarters/2020/08/26/7-fresh-content-marketing-strategies-you-havent-tried-plus-8-classic-ones-syndication/), both old and fresh.

## Google vs Netlify Analytics

Google Analytics has been around for a long time and has been a standard for every website. However, the age of serverless has brought about Netlify and their analytics service. For me, it can be hard to tell exactly how my analytics data is formed and it certainly becomes an overwhelming amount of information. Having had no experience with Netlify's analytics I found [Jim Nielsen's July blog post](https://blog.jim-nielsen.com/2020/google-vs-netlify-analytics/) to be incredibly informational as he compares the two services. The post is very in-depth and even offers some conflicting analytics between the two, which still makes me wonder just how accurate any of these services are.

## Increasing Productivity in the Workplace

If you're like me (and a lot of other people) you may struggle to be productive during your workday. Especially now with so many people still working from home or adjusting to the new normal in a changed office setting, it is perhaps the hardest it has ever been to be productive. A [post yesterday by actiTime highlighted some key ways to boost productivity](https://www.actitime.com/productivity/increase-productivity-in-the-workplace/) and each is backed a great person in history who suggested it. If you're looking for some new ways to boost your productivity or just need a refresher, give the article a read!
