---
date: 2020-09-02T09:00:00.000Z
tags:
  - Burnout
  - JavaScript
  - Health
  - Version Control
podcast: 'https://player.captivate.fm/episode/56f9a8b2-3837-4399-b607-137bacf62cd7'
---

## Burnout Symptoms for Developers

Burnout is defined by the World Health Organization as "a syndrome conceptualized as resulting from chronic workplace stress that has not been successfully managed." And this stress is very common among developers who are frequently overworked and stressed. A recent [post on The Next Web goes into detail regarding burnout for developers](https://thenextweb.com/growth-quarters/2020/08/29/developers-watch-out-for-these-burnout-symptoms-syndication/) outlining what is burnout, possible syndromes developers might experience, common causes, and prevention. It is a very educational read that is perfect for anyone, but especially developers.

## Writing a Good Pull Request Description

Pull requests are an integral and important part of open-source and almost any other form of development. This is why writing a good pull request description is critical for maintaining the code base efficiently and effectively. A [post last week on freeCodeCamp outlined the components of a pull request description](https://www.freecodecamp.org/news/how-to-write-a-pull-request-description/) and why they are necessary. While each developer and even each repository might have its own format, it never hurts to have a refresher on key components for a quality pull request description.

## Improving Novice JavaScript Coding Patterns

There are many different ways to reach the same outcome with JavaScript. But some of these ways may give away that you are a novice developer, or at least have the coding habits of one. A post on Monday in the [DEV Community highlights a couple of ways that you can improve your code](https://dev.to/alexeychang/js-coding-patterns-that-give-you-away-as-a-junior-developer-4h61) to show that you are not just beginning your JavaScript career. Learn the strategies of "not overusing if and else statements" and "not using functional programming in a nonfunctional way."
